[Music]
10 lies about weight loss many of us
still believe you go to the gym four
times a week don't eat after 6 p.m. and
stick to a low-carb healthy diet but you
still can't get even one step closer to
your dream wait what's going on why
don't all these well-known methods work
the truth is we now have an overwhelming
choice of so-called professional
nutritionists and health websites but
not all of them spread the right info so
which of the common how to lose weight
statements are nothing but lies let's
figure it out together but before we
squash the most popular fitness myths
make sure you subscribe to our channel
and turn on this little notification
belt to be the first one to see all the
updates coming daily from the bright
side of life myth number 10 a low carb
diet is the only way to lose weight no
one can deny that low-carb diets are
exceptionally effective when it comes to
weight loss however they still have
their share of disadvantages that are no
good for your health the main reason why
low-carb diets are so popular is their
ability to give quick and impressive
results due to a drop in water weight
and even though it all seems like a
dream come true at the beginning after
some time you can experience a serious
lack of energy remember that a low carb
diet isn't the only way to go if you
want to lose weight there are tons of
other appealing options like low fat or
low protein diets that work just as
fantastically
myth number nine you shouldn't eat after
6:00 p.m. one basic rule we all know
about dieting is that you shouldn't eat
after 6:00 p.m. but why where did this
rule come from it all started with
nutritionists pioneer Adelle Davis and
her well-known phrase eat breakfast like
a king lunch like a prince and dinner
like a pauper
since then tons of people firmly believe
that eating after 6:00 p.m. is strictly
forbidden if you want to toned body well
if you're one of them you can sigh with
relief because this popular rule isn't
exactly true according to the US
Department of Agriculture Weight Control
information network it doesn't really
matter when you eat what's important is
the number of calories you consume so
instead of starving after 6 p.m. write
down all the calories you eat every day
then be sure to burn them all and more
during the day
this way you'll lose weight within days
myth number 8 you should eat smaller
portions more frequently throughout the
day
[Music]
this is just another very common
misconception about weight loss in fact
following this rule can give you a
completely different result according to
the recent study conducted at the Loma
Linda University School of Public Health
along with the Institute of enteral
chronology in the Institute for clinical
and experimental medicine from Prague
people who eat small portions more than
three times a day weigh more than those
who prefer to eat less frequently in
addition people who have meals five or
six times a day tend to overestimate
their portion sizes specialists suggest
their own winning strategy for
preventing long-term weight gain eat
less frequently avoid snacks and consume
your largest meal in the morning noted
[Music]
myth number seven the more time you
spend in the gym the more results you'll
see
unfortunately the amount of time you
spend at the gym is barely connected
with weight loss
just like with a 6:00 p.m. rule it's not
about the length but the quality of your
training you can spend 4 hours in a gym
every day but if you have no idea what
you're doing
there'll be almost zero results moreover
most of the extremely effective workouts
last for only 15 minutes the best
solution here is to find a good trainer
who can lead you and keep an eye on how
effective your training sessions are if
you don't like the idea of having a
trainer you can always find a great
workout online or even on our Channel
just don't give up on working out all
together instead choose your exercises
more carefully myth number 6 the
anabolic window
[Music]
if you have no idea what the anabolic
window is it's basically the 30 minute
period after a workout during which
nutrition can boost your training
results however there's not enough
scientific evidence to confirm that
anabolic windows really do exist in fact
the research conducted by California
State University and the Department of
Health Science at Lehman College in New
York showed that the connection between
the nutrients consumed right after a
workout and better training results is
rather questionable so don't rely on the
mythical anabolic window to solve all of
your weight problems choose more
practical methods to achieve your body
goals instead myth number 5 fat makes
you fat true fat has nine calories per
gram protein for example has only four
however high fat foods on their own
won't make you gain tons of weight the
key to adding high fat foods to your
diet is to count your fat intake as long
as you watch it you'll be fine the US
Department of Agriculture states that a
person should consume less than 10% of
their daily calories from saturated fats
you can find them in dairy products meat
coconut oil dark chocolate and other
foods in general experts recommend
planning your menus so that you get no
more than 30% of your daily calories
from fat if you want to be even more
aware of your eating habits and how they
affect your weight try to keep a healthy
balance between fats proteins and cars
myth number four you will gain weight as
you grow older
[Music]
this so-called fad scares everyone from
people with extra weight to people with
toned bodies but in reality you have
nothing to worry about it's just a myth
but it doesn't mean that you should
forget about leading a healthy lifestyle
when you get older to put it simply if
you have been working out for most of
your life you'll be just fine at 50 or
70 years old but it's only going to
happen under one small condition you
have to hit the gym consistently not
just when you need to get that perfect
beach body the more you take care of
yourself now the better you'll look in
your 60s 70s and 80s myth number three a
workout is effective only if you feel
sore along with the myth the more time
you spend in the gym the better
some people are sure that a workout can
be considered great only if you can't
move at all the next day but before you
damage your health you have to know that
this statement has nothing to do with
reality
the feeling of soreness usually comes
from working out muscles you haven't
trained before like when you do new
exercises there's a variety of other
factors that contribute to soreness too
but none of them are connected to the
efficiency of your training so relax and
enjoy your workouts if you feel just
fine the next day it doesn't mean you
won't see outstanding results
[Music]
myth number two you should stretch
before working out each of us has always
been told to stretch before a workout to
prepare our muscles and body but as it
turns out it's not necessary at all the
research conducted at the Department of
kinesiology and health science at the
human performance laboratory at stephen
f austin State University in Texas who
revealed that people who skip stretching
were able to squat with 8.36 percent
more weight during their training
this means that saving stretches for the
end is the best tactic if you want to
lose weight after working out your
muscles will be ready to relax and get
the best from your favorite stretching
exercises myth number one you can eat
and drink anything you want during your
eating window while you're fasting when
you fast you have to follow two crucial
rules do not starve yourself and do not
over indulge in junk food during your
eating period your job is to consume
enough calories and try to eat as
cleanly as you possibly can during
intermittent fasting this technique will
help keep your insulin levels low
however if your system craves something
unhealthy you can give in just do it
wisely
for example drink black coffee with no
sugar if you can't stop thinking about a
cappuccino in this way fasting will help
you achieve the desired results way
quicker
and what about you do you know any other
famous weight loss tips that don't work
tell us in the comment section below if
you found this video interesting give us
a like and share it with your friends
who want to lose a couple of pounds too
and don't forget to subscribe to our
channel for more news and videos coming
from the bright side of life see you
soon
[Music]
[Applause]